# Analysis 

Due to the limitations in the data I had available (Tableau Public was struggling to run with combined data sets for me), I decided to focus on the period surrounding the 2016 election(on the 8th of November) in the US to see if there was any demographic changes in how the Citibike system was used during that time.

I started by looking at a map of the starting stop location and looking at the trends of usage for each week day across the month. As a general rule usage declined as the month went on. Noticably Tuesday was the only day not to drop in the second week, that day being the election day. You can also use the graphs to filter the output for the station data on the map. Comparing the election day to other Tuesdays you can see a higher density of bike usage in Manhattan island.

The next sheet of the story looks at the trends for station usage across the day, breaking it up by gender. By filtering by the day of the week you can see that the weekdays follow a general trend of peaking in the moring and evening around the start and end of the work day, where as the weekend days have a gradual arc peaking around midday. Interestingly when comparing the Tuesday of the election to the precious Tuesday there was a slight decline in the peaks for the day even though overall there was a slightly higher overall usage for the day. This could suggest that people were changing the commuting times to fit around voting on the day, which flattened the overall peaks for the day. This is supported by the fact that the inclines for both genders aren't as steep as the previous tuesday for both the start and end of the work day. 

The final page looks at the spread of station usage on the day of the election with an overlay of the per capita income for each ZIP code. Using the bottom graph you can filter this output by generation (e.g Baby Boomer, Gen X, etc) as well as customer type. Whilst it's perhaps not a perfect indicator it's a way of seeing the spread of where people live across the area as people are likely to live close the intial stop used. Obviously if the system is being used for return trips it will also show where their destination was as well. Unsurprisingly it shows a greater number of Millenials and Gen Xers living in the zip codes with lower median incomes. It perhaps also suggests that Gen Xers were more active that day, but think it's likely that they're a demographic that's more likely to be using the serivice anyway.

Obviously there are lot of limitations to this data, noticably a lack of comparison to other years, but i'm confident the data from the other days in November is enough to show any definitive changes. Also would have been helpful to have data showing voter turnout numbers by zip code as well as voting locations for the day to see if there were increased Citibike usage around those areas.
